# COVID-death-analysis
In this project, I analyzed COVID deaths with specific social and economic themes to deduce what variables are more associated with COVID deaths. The selected themes were religion, ethnicity, general health condition and social grade.

I used multiple techniques to identify and rank the key factors associated with COVID death counts in England and Wales. From my analysis, good health conditions emerge as significant in reducing COVID deaths. This confirms existing studies that the coronavirus was more severe in people who had pre-existing health conditions (Roy and Ghosh, 2020). People who identify with other religions had a higher risk of dying from COVID compared to Christians. This supports the report of (Gaughan et al., 2021) that other religious affiliations died more than Christians. 

Furthermore, the results showed that being in the upper middle class slightly increases the risk of COVID death. According to the report by (ONS, 2020) jobs that involve proximity with people had higher risks, and the upper-middle class involves supervisory, junior managerial, and administrative duties, which entails great interactions with colleagues and clients. Lastly, Asian ethnicity has an increased risk of mortality rate. (Office of National Statistics, 2020) reported that most minority ethnicities had a higher mortality rate. Hence, the main finding from this project is that religion, ethnicity, social grade, and health conditions factors contribute to driving the incidence of COVID deaths.

The strengths of this work are that the target variable was normally distributed and that internally correlating independent variables were eliminated to improve accuracy. While the weakness of this project is the use of 2011 census data. This assumes that religious affiliations and other themes have not changed between 2011 and 2020, and this is very unlikely. Another assumption is that there is no link between any two observations. Ways to improve the model will be eliminating outliers from the data set and using a current dataset for population count. Additionally, adding more variables for each theme can increase the model's accuracy and precision. Further studies should include figuring out the reasons behind the unexplained COVID death risks as this will give insights into how to manage the death rates. 
